hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain fourier series representation of continuous time periodic signals
assume that we have a periodic complex exponential signal y of t
this signal has harmonically related signals shown with phi sub k here
each harmonically related signal has a fundamental frequency that is a multiple of omega zero
a linear combination of harmonically related complex exponentials has the form given below
this signal is also periodic with a period of t
here the term for k is equal to zero is constant
and the terms for k is equal to plus one and k is equal to minus one are referred to as first harmonic components
in a similar way when k equals minus two or plus two the components are called second harmonic components
the representation of periodic signals as the linear combination of harmonically related complex exponentials is referred to as fourier series representation
here two questions arise based on this representation
first how can we determine the coefficients a sub k's
second how broad class of signals can be represented in this way
let's start with the first question
fourier series coefficients are computed as given in the second equation
which is called the synthesis equation
note that fourier series representation is called the analysis equation
I want you to derive the synthesis equation from the analysis equation using the given hints below
so let's move to the second question which asks how broad class signals can be represented as fourier series
the answer is that fourier series can be used to represent an extremely large class of signals
in the next slides I am going to explain the conditions for the signals that guarantee the existence of fourier series representation
let's first assume that we represent the signal x of t using finite series so that the summation is from minus n to plus n
the error between the original signal and the finite series representation is called the approximation error
if the signal x of t has a fourier series representation then the energy in the error over one period goes to zero when n goes to infinity
one class of signals that have fourier series representation is the signals that have finite energy over one period
in other words the signal is square integrable
when this condition is satisfied we are guaranteed that the coefficients are finite and the energy in the error over one period goes to zero when n goes to infinity
however this does not imply that x of t and its fourier series representation are equal at any value of t
an alternative set of conditions is dirichlet conditions
first condition states that x of t must be absolutely integrable
second condition states that x of t has a finite number of maxima and minima in any finite interval of time
and the third and the last condition states that there are only a finite number of discontinuities in any finite interval of time
this set of conditions guarantees that x of t equals its fourier series representation except at discontinuities
in this video I have explained fourier series representation of continuous time periodic signals
let me know if you have any questions
thank you